Add OTel Histogram support documentation (#37526)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/open_telemetry/otlp_metric_types.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Histogram" %}}

OTLP defines two histogram types for representing value distributions:

- **Histogram (Explicit Bucket)**: Uses fixed, user-defined or SDK-default bucket boundaries. Each bucket counts how many measured values fall within its bounds. Also stores sum, count, and optional min/max.

> - **ExponentialHistogram**: Uses dynamically computed bucket boundaries based on a scale parameter (base = 2^(2^(-scale))), which allows high dynamic range with small relative error. Datadog supports scales in the range [-4, 8].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ExponentialHistogram**: Uses dynamically computed bucket boundaries based on a scale parameter (`base = 2^(2^(-scale))`), which allows high dynamic range with small relative error. Datadog supports scales in the range `[-4, 8]`.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Histogram" %}}

OTLP defines two histogram types for representing value distributions:

- **Histogram (Explicit Bucket)**: Uses fixed, user-defined or SDK-default bucket boundaries. Each bucket counts how many measured values fall within its bounds. Also stores sum, count, and optional min/max.
- **ExponentialHistogram**: Uses dynamically computed bucket boundaries based on a scale parameter (base = 2^(2^(-scale))), which allows high dynamic range with small relative error. Datadog supports scales in the range [-4, 8].

>  Aggregation temporality, which can be cumulative or delta, determines the mapping for both histogram types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Aggregation temporality*, which can be cumulative or delta, determines the mapping for both histogram types:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Histogram" %}}

OTLP defines two histogram types for representing value distributions:

- **Histogram (Explicit Bucket)**: Uses fixed, user-defined or SDK-default bucket boundaries. Each bucket counts how many measured values fall within its bounds. Also stores sum, count, and optional min/max.
- **ExponentialHistogram**: Uses dynamically computed bucket boundaries based on a scale parameter (base = 2^(2^(-scale))), which allows high dynamic range with small relative error. Datadog supports scales in the range [-4, 8].

> Both types have one feature that influences the mapping:
> 
> - *Aggregation temporality*, which can be cumulative or delta. Delta metrics have no overlap in their time windows, while cumulative metrics represent a time window from a fixed start point in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Aggregation temporality, which can be cumulative or delta, determines the mapping for both histogram types:
```

> The default mapping for both temporality types is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The default mapping for both histogram temporality types is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default mapping for both temporality types is as follows:
```

> - **Delta (Default and Recommended)**: Explicit Bucket and Exponential Histograms are ingested natively and reported as Datadog distributions. The original bucket structure is preserved — no conversion to DDSketch occurs. Histograms with a count of 0 are dropped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Delta (default and recommended)**: Explicit Bucket and Exponential Histograms are ingested natively and reported as Datadog distributions. The original bucket structure is preserved — no conversion to DDSketch occurs. Histograms with a count of 0 are dropped.
```

> - **Cumulative**: The delta between consecutive points is calculated and reported to Datadog as a distribution. Deltas with a count of 0 are not reported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Delta (default and recommended)**: Time windows don't overlap. Explicit Bucket and Exponential Histograms are ingested natively and reported as Datadog distributions. The original bucket structure is preserved; no conversion to DDSketch occurs. Histograms with a count of 0 are dropped.
- **Cumulative**: Time windows extend from a fixed start point. The delta between consecutive points is calculated and reported to Datadog as a distribution. Deltas with a count of 0 are not reported.
```

> **Note**: See [Producing Delta Temporality Metrics with OpenTelemetry][3] for configuration instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: See [Producing Delta Temporality Metrics with OpenTelemetry][3] for instructions on configuring your SDK or Collector to emit delta temporality.
```

> **Note**: See [Producing Delta Temporality Metrics with OpenTelemetry][3] for configuration instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: See [Producing Delta Temporality Metrics with OpenTelemetry][3] for instructions on configuring your SDK or Collector to emit delta temporality.
```

> Explicit and Exponential Histograms are stored natively in Datadog, preserving the original bucket boundaries and counts. Percentile aggregations are computed directly from the native bucket structure. Min and max are stored when provided; if not present in the original data, they are derived from the bucket boundaries.

Reviewer: The first sentence repeats what the Delta bullet already states ("ingested natively... The original bucket structure is preserved").

```suggestion
Percentile aggregations are computed directly from the native bucket structure. Min and max are stored when provided; if not present in the original data, they are derived from the bucket boundaries.
```

**Datadog In-App Type**: COUNT

`<METRIC_NAME>.min`
: Minimum of values submitted during the time window. Only available for delta OTLP Histograms. Available since: OTLP Exporter v0.75.0 and Datadog Agent v6.45.0 and v7.45.0. <br>
**Datadog In-App Type**: GAUGE

`<METRIC_NAME>.max`
: Maximum of values submitted during the time window. Only available for delta OTLP Histograms. Available since: OTLP Exporter v0.75.0 and Datadog Agent v6.45.0 and v7.45.0.<br>
**Datadog In-App Type**: GAUGE

**Note**: `send_aggregation_metrics` is useful only when not using the distributions mode. Before the OTLP Exporter v0.75.0 and the Datadog Agent v6.45.0 and v7.45.0 use `send_count_sum_metrics` instead.

[1]: /metrics/distributions

> [2]: /dashboards/functions/arithmetic/#cumulative-sum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Datadog In-App Type**: COUNT

`<METRIC_NAME>.min`
: Minimum of values submitted during the time window. Only available for delta OTLP Histograms. Available since: OTLP Exporter v0.75.0 and Datadog Agent v6.45.0 and v7.45.0. <br>
**Datadog In-App Type**: GAUGE

`<METRIC_NAME>.max`
: Maximum of values submitted during the time window. Only available for delta OTLP Histograms. Available since: OTLP Exporter v0.75.0 and Datadog Agent v6.45.0 and v7.45.0.<br>
**Datadog In-App Type**: GAUGE

> **Note**: `send_aggregation_metrics` is useful only when not using the distributions mode. Before the OTLP Exporter v0.75.0 and the Datadog Agent v6.45.0 and v7.45.0 use `send_count_sum_metrics` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: `send_aggregation_metrics` is useful only when not using the distributions mode. For OTLP Exporter versions earlier than v0.75.0 or Datadog Agent versions earlier than v6.45.0 and v7.45.0, use `send_count_sum_metrics` instead.
```

> 
> {{% /tab %}}

Reviewer: Add `[3]` reference definition inside the tab so the link on line 83 resolves. Links defined at the bottom of the file don't resolve inside `{{% %}}` shortcode blocks.

```suggestion
[3]: /opentelemetry/guide/otlp_delta_temporality/

{{% /tab %}}
```

> {{% /tab %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[3]: /opentelemetry/guide/otlp_delta_temporality/

{{% /tab %}}
```
